now the blast in Iran happened while
foreign ministers from the G7 Nations
wrapped up talks on the Italian island
of Capri the seven leading industrial
democracies warned of new sanctions
against Iran for its drone and missile
attack on Israel last weekend they
called on both sides to avoid an
escalation of the
conflict now during this Summit
Germany's foreign minister analina Bok
criticized Iran for its attack on Israel
against the backdrop of reports about uh
the attacks on the 19th of April we call
upon all parties to work to ensure that
there is no further escalation as the G7
that is exactly what we're doing these
days in Berlin this morning the
government's crisis unit met under the
guidance and Leadership of the foreign
office the federal government continues
to watch the situation on the ground
it's a fact that last weekend Iran in an
unprecedented manner escalated the
situation and tried to take to the brink
of CHA a region at
large uh colleague the US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin says measures will
be taken against
Iran you saw as well or you'll see soon
in the G7 statement a commitment to hold
Iran to account uh to account for its
destabilizing activities
uh holding it to account by uh degrading
its missile and drone
capabilities uh and yesterday the United
States announced additional sanctions on
Iran targeting UAV programs the steel
industry companies that are associated
with the irgc the ministry of defense
and its Armed Forces Logistics the G7
statement makes clear that G7 countries
will adopt additional sanctions or other
measures in the days ahead thew Chief
International editor Richard Walker gave
us his assessment of the G7
statements there's been a a pretty kind
of Cy and very cautious uh response uh
from Western leaders from the G7 uh
echoing that today so so you know using
the kind of language we just heard from
analina bbok in the clip there the
wording that she used was something
along the lines of inlight of reports of
strikes on April 19th so today's date we
we urge all parties to work to prevent
further escalation that's almost exactly
lifted out of the G7 uh foreign
ministers communic that that was issued
today so they're really kind of sticking
to a script I think there um and I think
it it it points to really two priorities
that they have first of all um is that
priority of trying to ensure that there
is no further escalation they really
don't want this to spin out of uh
control so they don't want to say
anything that could heat up the
situation further um and then uh as a
second point a priority is reassurance
to Israel um that they've got Israel's
back diplomatically that it's not up to
Israel really to try to resolve this
entirely militarily that for instance as
we just heard from Tony blinkin the US
Secretary of State there that more
sanctions are on the way either already
from the US in the UK or potentially
down the road from um other G7 member
states so trying to kind of reassure
Israel enough that Israel doesn't feel
that it's got it completely in its hands
to respond to to Iran's very large um
attack which happened so recently so so
I think the Hope among the G7 foreign
ministers among the Western Community as
a whole but of course also in the Middle
East and really everywhere is that you
know escalation can be avoided that that
that this may even be uh the end of this
particular exchange between Israel and
Iran now let's uh take a look at the
wider region how did the neighboring
nations
react yeah so what I think I would be
interested to look at Jordan um as a
really interesting player here because
um Jordan uh as we saw when Iran
launched those 300 plus missiles and
drones towards Israel um Jordan was
alongside the United States and other
Western countries was one of the
countries that helped Israel uh to shoot
those down um shooting down um uh uh uh
such projectiles that were going over
its territory so so a really strong um
you know really concrete Act of support
there from the jordanians to the
Israelis um and the Jordanian foreign
minister today was saying that Israeli
Iranian it retaliations must end and
that the inhumane war on Gaza must end
now so trying I think like we just heard
from Christian hellberg trying to get
the focus back uh to the situation in
Gaza saying that is the priority for for
for Israel's Arab neighbors and that it
wants this um not to spiral into an
escalation between um Iran and Israel
and I I think Jordan's position here has
particular weight not just towards Iran
which will be seeing okay this is one of
Israel's neighbors really helping it
against us but also its words have
weight towards Israel for towards the
Israelis thinking well the Israelis
don't want to put a a country that has
just shown such solidarity with it stuck
its neck out for Israel um not to put it
then in the more difficult situation uh
by moving to an escalatory response so
that could have been one of the factors
that contributed to and if this is the
case that this really was the limit of
the Israeli response that we're going to
see this pretty small response by Israel
to that large attack uh from Iran um
Jordan's position could be one of the
factors that it's considering the's
Chief International editor Richard
Walker there thank you very much Richard